a soft answer turns away wrath but a
harsh word stirs up anger the tongue of
the wise uses knowledge rightly but the
mouth of fools pours forth foolishness
the eyes of the Lord are in every place
keeping watch on the evil and the good a
wholesome tongue is a tree of life but
perverseness in it breaks the spirit a
fool despises his father's instruction
but he who receives correction is
prudent in the house of the righteous
there is much treasure but in the
revenue of the wicked is trouble the
lips of the wise dispersed knowledge but
the heart of the fool does not do so the
sacrifice of the wicked is an
abomination to the Lord but the prayer
of the upright is his delight the way of
the wicked is an abomination to the Lord
but he loves him who follows
righteousness harsh discipline is for
him who forsakes the way and he who
hates correction will die hell and
destruction are before the Lord so how
much more the hearts of the sons of men
a scoffer does not love one who corrects
him nor will he go to the wise a merry
heart makes a cheerful countenance but
by sorrow of the heart the spirit is
broken the heart of him who has
understanding seeks knowledge but the
mouth of fools feeds on foolishness all
the days of the afflicted are evil but
he who is of a merry heart as a
continual feast better is a little with
the fear of the Lord than great treasure
with trouble better is a dinner of herbs
where love is than a fatted calf with
hatred a wrathful man stirs up strife
but he who is slow to anger a lays
contention the way of the lazy man is
like a hedge of thorns but the way of
the upright is a highway a wise son
makes a father glad but a foolish man
despises his mother folly is joy to him
who is destitute of discernment but a
man of understanding walks uprightly
without counsel plans go awry but in the
multitude of counselors they are
established a man has joy by the answer
of his mouth and a word spoken in due
season how good it is the way of life
winds upward for the wise that he may
turn away from Hell below the Lord will
destroy the house of the proud but he
will establish the boundary of the widow
the thoughts of the wicked are an
abomination to the Lord but the words of
the pure are pleasant
he who is greedy for gain troubles his
own house but he who hates bribes will
live the heart of the righteous studies
how to answer but the mouth of the
wicked pours forth evil the Lord is far
from the wicked but he hears the prayer
of the righteous the light of the eyes
rejoices the heart and a good report
makes the bones healthy the ear that
hears the rebukes of life will abide
among the wise he who disdains
instruction despises his own soul but he
who heeds rebuke gets understanding
the fear of the Lord is the instruction
of wisdom and before honor is humility
[Music]